.TH makehelp 1
.SH NAME
makehelp \- Extract and print help information from Makefiles.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makehelp
[\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIMAKEFILE\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B makehelp
extracts and prints help information form Makefiles by looking for documentation comment blocks in front of variables and goals.
A documentation comment block is one or more lines of comments only of which the first line starts with "##".
.br
If no
.IR MAKEFILE
is given,
.B makehelp
tries to read a Makefile from
.IR stdin .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-changelog
Prints the changelog and exits.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-vardefs
Generates variable definition file and exits.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Prints this help text and exits.
.TP
.BR \-?
Same as -h.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Prints version information and exits.
.SH MAKEHELP COMMENT SYNTAX
.SS Documenting Variables
In order to document a variable, use a documentation comment before the variable declaration.
It is common to document those variables which the user could or should override on the command line.

.RS 4
## C Compiler executable.
.RS 0
CC:=gcc
.SS Documenting Goals
In order to document a goal, use a documentation comment before the goal declaration.
It is common to document those goals which are relevant to the user.

.RS 4
\[char46]PHONY: all
.RS 0
## Builds the executable.
.RS 0
all: main
.SS Referencing Variables
It is possible to reference variables in comments.
To do so, include a variable in a comment like this: $(VARNAME).

.RS 4
## Installation path prefix.
.RS 0
# Current value: $(PREFIX).
.RS 0
PREFIX:=/usr/local/
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit status is 0 if help text could be printed.
If an error occurred, the exit status is not zero.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Christian Hujer.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs via <https://github.com/christianhujer/makeunit/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2015 Chrsitian Hujer.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
